Now, let's move on to arrays, now,
this is an example of an array in rust and
arrays in rust are pretty different from
how you might think of arrays in any other
language views unless specifically.
You've used c because rust arrays
are more like C arrays and
they are arrays in like
JavaScript Python Ruby.
Most languages that use
the term arrays means something
different than what they mean in rust or
in C.
Here's what I mean, so
here we have an array of years,
there are three years in this array 1985,
2000, 2005.
See, we have the square bracket syntax,
which is the traditional array
syntax from C and we have the type,
so this says i32 semi colon three.
Now, what's interesting about this is that
this is saying All of the elements in this
array are i32.
So unlike tuples, and
structs, you cannot mix and
match you have to have one consistent
type for all of your elements.
And the second thing and
this is where rust arrays differ from
arrays in most other languages you
might be familiar with, arrays have
a hard coded length at compile time.
So these three is part of the type
of this array, it says, this array,
always has exactly three elements,
it can never have more than three,
it can never have fewer than three.
Now, there is a way to
get a similar collection,
it's probably more like what you're
familiar with where at that can't grow and
shrink, we're getting that
in the future section.
But for arrays,
this actually much like with structs and
with tuples, what you see is what you get,
you get exactly three elements
forever with this array called years.
So that's sort of a, arrays are fixed
length in rust, now, if I want,
I can say I want to get the first year out
of this, I can say years bracket zero,
so that's going to give me back 1995.
I can also do destructuring, here like
this with the square brackets and
underscoring the appropriate
positions of notes,
I can also put variables
in here instead of zero.
So I could say, years bracket x,
years bracket y, if that,
if I put something that's out of bounds or
like I say, years bracket foo.
And it's outside the bounds of this array,
that will panic at runtime, so
don't do that but if we're using it
with hard coded numbers like this, then.
It's basically gonna work the same way as
a tuple would because, I've defined this
as mutable, I can also reassign
this year's bracket to equals 2010.
And again,
I could also put yours bracket x or
yours bracket foo equals 2010 if I wanted
to, so this is an example of that,
both of these do
essentially the same thing.
Worth noting that, yeah, in this case,
this will never pack it,
this will never panic, because rust
would give me a compile time error.
If I put in a hard coded number that's
outside the bounds of the array,
rust says, okay, I know that's gonna
be a problem but if I do with x,
rust necessarily know
what next is going to be.
So it'll do a runtime check instead and
potentially panic if I do something
that's outside the bounds of the array,
so be careful with doing that.
One thing you can do with arrays
that you cannot do with tuples and
structures, you can iterate over them, so
here's how we do that,
I'd say four year in years dot enter.
This is a method call,
we haven't gotten into methods yet,
we'll talk about them in the future, but
their syntax is probably familiar to you
depending on what other
languages you've used.
And here, this is basically going to do a
loop where, each time we go through one of
the elements in this array,
it's gonna run this line of code.
So this print line that says next
year colon and then year plus one, so
first it'll say next year 1996,
cuz that's 1995 plus one,
then next year 2001 then next year 2006.
So this is something you do with arrays,
you cannot iterate over tuples and
structs though, okay, so
in summary, some of the differences
between arrays and tuples.
So here we have our array, we can iterate
over it, it's got a fixed type to it,
so all of the elements in the array
have to have this type and
it's got a hard coded length.
And this sort of will illustrate why
we're allowed to iterate over arrays but
not over tuples, so because we have this
hard coded type for all the elements.
That means that, rust knows every
single time we go into this loop,
I know Know exactly what
the type of error is, it's i32.
It has to be because every single of
these elements has to be an i32 and
that's good because rust.
As we've discussed previously,
wants to know the exact type for
every single thing and every single
thing has to have only one type.
There's no such thing as may be i32,
may be string, rust doesn't do that,
it's always got to be one type,
so because of this, it knows.
Okay, no matter how many elements we
decided to hard code, there always gonna
be i32s there for year when I run
this code is always gonna be i32.
Now, in contrast, if we had a tuple here,
remember tuples you can mix and
match, you can say i32,
i32 bool, well, I mean,
you can imagine when we're
going through the loop.
What is the type of year like
the first two iterations of loopy i32,
the third time it would be bool, what's
bool plus one, that's not really a thing.
So this would give you a compile error,
if you tried to do this, it would say, no,
you can't iterate over tuples,
you can only iterate over arrays or
the things that we'll talk about later.
Okay, so in summary,
arrays can be iterated over tuples and
structs cannot but the downside of that.
So the trade off is that array
elements must all have the same type,
which is both what allows
them to be iterated over but
also what makes them less
flexible than tuples and structs.